README.md, before:

# Preparing Raspberry Pi 3 #
### Install Raspbian Jessie on the Raspberry Pi 3
    
It is highly recommended to install Raspbian Jessie releases on 18th March 2016.
http://downloads.raspberrypi.org/raspbian/images/raspbian-2016-03-18/2016-03-18-raspbian-jessie.zip

### Expand file system
    
Expand file system by following this:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/raspi-config.md

### Update and Upgrade Packages 
    
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade

# Download sample code.
    
    cd ~
    git clone https://github.com/AtlasScientific/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code.git


# FTDI MODE #

### Installing dependencies for FTDI adaptors ###

- Install libftdi package.

        sudo apt-get install libftdi-dev
    
    
- Install pylibftdi python package.
    
        sudo pip install pylibftdi


- Create SYMLINK of the FTDI adaptors.
    
    The following will allow ordinary users (e.g. ‘pi’ on the RPi) to access to the FTDI device without needing root permissions:
    
    If you are using device with root permission, just skip this step. 
    
    Create udev rule file by typing `sudo nano /etc/udev/rules.d/99-libftdi.rules` and insert below:
    
        SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="0403", ATTRS{idProduct}=="6015", GROUP="dialout", MODE="0660", SYMLINK+="FTDISerial_Converter_$attr{serial}"

    Press CTRL+X, Y and hit Enter to save & exit.
    
    Restart `udev` service to apply changes above.
        
        sudo service udev restart


- Modify FTDI python driver
    
    Since our FTDI devices use other USB PID(0x6015), we need to tweak the original FTDI Driver.
    
        sudo nano /usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/pylibftdi/driver.py
    
    Move down to the line 70 and add `0x6015` at the end of line.

    Original line:
        
        USB_PID_LIST = [0x6001, 0x6010, 0x6011, 0x6014]
        
    Added line:
            
        USB_PID_LIST = [0x6001, 0x6010, 0x6011, 0x6014, 0x6015]        
        
        
- Testing Installation.

    Connect your device, and run the following (as a regular user):
        
        python -m pylibftdi.examples.list_devices
   
    If all goes well, the program should report information about each connected device. 

    If no information is printed, but it is when run with sudo, 
    a possibility is permissions problems - see the section under Linux above regarding udev rules.
    
    You may get result like this:
        
        FTDI:FT230X Basic UART:DA00TN73
    
    FTDI adaptors has its own unique serial number.

    We need this to work with our sensors.

    In the result above, serial number is `DA00TN73`.
    
### Using pylibftdi module for Atlas Sensors. ###
    
Please remember the serial number of your device and run the sample code.
    
    cd ~/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code
    sudo python ftdi.py
    
Input the serial number and you can see the sensor's information and also sensor's LED status as well.
 
For more details on the commands & responses, please refer the Datasheets of Atlas Sensors. 


# I2C MODE #

### Enable I2C bus on the Raspberry Pi ###

Enable I2C bus on the Raspberry Pi by following this:

https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruits-raspberry-pi-lesson-4-gpio-setup/configuring-i2c

NOTE: The I2C address of Atlas Sensor is 0x62.

You can confirm this with `sudo i2cdetect -y 1` command.

### Test Sensor ###
    
Run the sample code like below:
    
    cd ~/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code
    sudo python i2c.py

The default I2C address is 98(0x62).

If you need to change the address, input `ADDRESS,99` to change the address to 99(0x63)

If you need to get sensor data continuously, input `POLL,3` to get data with time interval of 3 seconds.

For more details on the commands & responses, please refer the Datasheets of Atlas Sensors.


   
# UART MODE #

### Preventing Raspberry Pi from using the serial port ###

The Broadcom UART appears as `/dev/ttyS0` under Linux. 

There are several minor things in the way if you want to have dedicated control of the serial port on a Raspberry Pi.

- Firstly, the kernel will use the port as controlled by kernel command line contained in `/boot/cmdline.txt`. 
    
    The file will look something like this:

        dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 console=ttyAMA0,115200 kgdboc=ttyAMA0,115200 console=tty1 root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rootfstype=ext4 elevator=deadline rootwait

    The console keyword outputs messages during boot, and the kgdboc keyword enables kernel debugging. 

    You will need to remove all references to ttyAMA0.
    
    So, for the example above `/boot/cmdline.txt`, should contain:

        dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 console=tty1 root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rootfstype=ext4 elevator=deadline rootwait
    
    You must be root to edit this (e.g. use `sudo nano /boot/cmdline.txt`). 

    Be careful doing this, as a faulty command line can prevent the system booting.

- Secondly, after booting, a login prompt appears on the serial port. 
    
    This is controlled by the following lines in `/etc/inittab`:
        
        #Spawn a getty on Raspberry Pi serial line
        T0:23:respawn:/sbin/getty -L ttyAMA0 115200 vt100
    
    You will need to edit this file to comment out the second line, i.e.
    
        #T0:23:respawn:/sbin/getty -L ttyAMA0 115200 vt100
        
- Finally you will need to reboot the Raspberry Pi for the new settings to take effect. 
    
    Once this is done, you can use `/dev/ttyS0` like any normal Linux serial port, and you won't get any unwanted traffic confusing the attached devices.
    
To double-check, use

    cat /proc/cmdline
    
to show the current kernel command line, and
    
    ps aux | grep ttyS0

to search for getty processes using the serial port.


### Ensure PySerial is installed for Python. ###

    sudo pip install pyserial
    
### Run the below Python script:
    
    cd ~/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code
    sudo python uart.py

Commit message:

fixes to sample code:
ftdi: gets a list of FTDI devices and lets the user choose which one to open, reads multiple lines to allow *ok and continuous mode to not mess up the buffer.
i2c: adds a new command which creates a list of i2c addresses on the line
uart: reads multiple lines to allow *ok and continuous mode to not mess up the buffer.
readme: updated documentation to work with these new features

README.md, after:

# Preparing Raspberry Pi 3 #
### Install Raspbian Jessie on the Raspberry Pi 3
    
It is highly recommended to install Raspbian Jessie releases on 18th March 2016.
http://downloads.raspberrypi.org/raspbian/images/raspbian-2016-03-18/2016-03-18-raspbian-jessie.zip

### Expand file system
    
Expand file system by following this:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/raspi-config.md

### Update and Upgrade Packages 
    
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade

# Download sample code.
    
    cd ~
    git clone https://github.com/AtlasScientific/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code.git


# FTDI MODE #

FTDI mode works with Atlas Scientific's FTDI based USB to Serial devices such as the 
[Electrically Isolated USB EZO™ Carrier Board](https://www.atlas-scientific.com/product_pages/components/usb-iso.html) and the [Basic USB to Serial Converter](https://www.atlas-scientific.com/product_pages/components/basic_usb.html)

### Installing dependencies for FTDI adaptors ###

- Install libftdi package.

        sudo apt-get install libftdi-dev
    
    
- Install pylibftdi python package.
    
        sudo pip install pylibftdi


- Create SYMLINK of the FTDI adaptors.
    **NOTE:** If you are using device with root permission, just skip this step. 

    The following will allow ordinary users (e.g. ‘pi’ on the RPi) to access to the FTDI device without needing root permissions:
    
    Create udev rule file by typing `sudo nano /etc/udev/rules.d/99-libftdi.rules` and insert below:
    
        SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="0403", ATTRS{idProduct}=="6015", GROUP="dialout", MODE="0660", SYMLINK+="FTDISerial_Converter_$attr{serial}"

    Press CTRL+X, Y and hit Enter to save & exit.
    
    Restart `udev` service to apply changes above.
        
        sudo service udev restart


- Modify FTDI python driver
    
    Since our FTDI devices use other USB PID(0x6015), we need to tweak the original FTDI Driver.
    
        sudo nano /usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/pylibftdi/driver.py
    
    Move down to the line 70 and add `0x6015` at the end of line.

    Original line:
        
        USB_PID_LIST = [0x6001, 0x6010, 0x6011, 0x6014]
        
    Added line:
            
        USB_PID_LIST = [0x6001, 0x6010, 0x6011, 0x6014, 0x6015]        
        
        
- Testing Installation.

    Connect your device, and run the following (as a regular user):
        
        python -m pylibftdi.examples.list_devices
   
    If all goes well, the program should report information about each connected device. 

    If no information is printed, but it is when run with sudo, 
    a possibility is permissions problems - see the section under Linux above regarding udev rules.
    
    You may get result like this:
        
        FTDI:FT230X Basic UART:DA00TN73
    
    FTDI adaptors has its own unique serial number.

    We need this to work with our sensors.

    In the result above, serial number is `DA00TN73`.
    
### Using pylibftdi module for Atlas Sensors. ###
    
Run the sample code.
    
    cd ~/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code
    sudo python ftdi.py
    
When the program opens, it will give a list of available serial numbers. Type in the index number of the serial port you want the program to open to start communication.
 
For more details on the commands & responses, please refer the Datasheet of your Atlas Scientific sensors.


# I2C MODE #

I2C mode uses the GPIO I2C port on the Raspberry Pi to talk to one or more Atlas Scientific sensors.

### Enable I2C bus on the Raspberry Pi ###

Enable I2C bus on the Raspberry Pi by following this:

https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruits-raspberry-pi-lesson-4-gpio-setup/configuring-i2c

You can confirm this with `sudo i2cdetect -y 1` command.

### Test Sensor ###
    
Run the sample code like below:
    
    cd ~/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code
    sudo python i2c.py

The default I2C address is 98(0x62).

To see the available I2C addresses, use `List_addr` command.

If you need to change the address, input `ADDRESS,99` to change the address to 99(0x63)

If you need to get sensor data continuously, input `POLL,3` to get data with time interval of 3 seconds.

For more details on the commands & responses, please refer the Datasheets of Atlas Sensors.


   
# UART MODE #

This mode allows use of the GPIO UART as well as non FTDI based serial port devices.

**NOTE:** This mode doesnt work with the Pi 3 when using the GPIO UART
 
### Preventing Raspberry Pi from taking up the serial port ###

The Broadcom UART appears as `/dev/ttyS0` under Linux. 

There are several minor things in the way if you want to have dedicated control of the serial port on a Raspberry Pi.

- Firstly, the kernel will use the port as controlled by kernel command line contained in `/boot/cmdline.txt`. 
    
    The file will look something like this:

        dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 console=ttyAMA0,115200 kgdboc=ttyAMA0,115200 console=tty1 root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rootfstype=ext4 elevator=deadline rootwait

    The console keyword outputs messages during boot, and the kgdboc keyword enables kernel debugging. 

    You will need to remove all references to ttyAMA0.
    
    So, for the example above `/boot/cmdline.txt`, should contain:

        dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0 console=tty1 root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rootfstype=ext4 elevator=deadline rootwait
    
    You must be root to edit this (e.g. use `sudo nano /boot/cmdline.txt`). 

    Be careful doing this, as a faulty command line can prevent the system booting.

- Secondly, after booting, a login prompt appears on the serial port. 
    
    This is controlled by the following lines in `/etc/inittab`:
        
        #Spawn a getty on Raspberry Pi serial line
        T0:23:respawn:/sbin/getty -L ttyAMA0 115200 vt100
    
    You will need to edit this file to comment out the second line, i.e.
    
        #T0:23:respawn:/sbin/getty -L ttyAMA0 115200 vt100
        
- Finally you will need to reboot the Raspberry Pi for the new settings to take effect. 
    
    Once this is done, you can use `/dev/ttyS0` like any normal Linux serial port, and you won't get any unwanted traffic confusing the attached devices.
    
To double-check, use

    cat /proc/cmdline
    
to show the current kernel command line, and
    
    ps aux | grep ttyS0

to search for getty processes using the serial port.


### Ensure PySerial is installed for Python. ###

    sudo pip install pyserial
    
### Run the below Python script:
    
    cd ~/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code
    sudo python uart.py

### To use other serial ports:

change the line

    usbport = '/dev/ttyAMA0'

in `uart.py` to point to the serial port you wish to use and run the script.
